# Capstone Project Writeup

This project creates a website that represents a job hiring service. Users can create an account and submit a job application, stating their pay and the description of the job they will do, and other users can contact them privately for more details or simply just hire them right on the website. Users can view their private messages with other users or view posted jobs and jobs they’ve already hired.

## Distinctiveness and Complexity

This project satisfies the requirements of being distinct from Project 2 and 4 as a job hiring service, not as a commerce website selling goods, like in Project 2, and is not a social network, as all messages between users are supposed to be private. While this may propose similarities between this project and Project 2, there are many differences. First of all, there is no bidding system. The first user that clicks the "Hire" button will hire that person, as opposed to a bidding system where multiple people can be competing for a product over a perceived time period at the user's choice. In this capstone project, there is only posting an application, and hiring them. There are also no categories of jobs being hired, and cannot be provided by the user making the job post. To distinguish the project from Project 4, there is no commenting feature - only private messaging, which is intended for the use of getting more information about the job application before hiring. Project 4 makes all posts public to all users, but messages being sent between users can only be seen by the users involved in the private message. No other users will be capable of viewing private messages, unless done by means outside of the website. Further separating this from Project 4 is that there is no liking system, or following system. Private messages cannot be “liked”, and users cannot be “followed”. 

## Content of Files

In the views.py file, functions are created to display certain webpages for the user, such as a login/register page, a main menu to go to the different features of the webpage, and each individual page containing either the list of jobs posted by other users, the private messaging page, the page to create a job application, and a list of previously hired jobs. There are also API functions that are used to obtain information from the database, as well as send information to the database, such as new messages being created, or new jobs being created. The urls.py file contains URLs for the user to access, as well as API links that are being used for fetch calls. The models.py file contains 3 classes: User, Job, and Message. The User class is used to allow the user to log in to an account. The Job class represents a job application, with the user who posted the application, a price per hour, the time it was posted, the description of the job, and the user that has hired them. The Message class represents a private message, with the sender, receiver, the content of the message, and the timestamp of the message. Within the templates folder, HTML pages are contained to provide the user with a comfortable UI to access the many features of the website. The static folder contains styles.css, which is used to make the HTML pages look more stylistic, and index.js, which is used to add event listeners to the HTML pages, so that the user can switch between HTML pages and create job applications and send messages using forms.

## How to Run

Simply open a command line prompt or terminal, go into the directory, and type “python manage.py runserver”. This will start up the website, and users can access the website and use it freely.

